# tomcat-with-ssl-snap
TODO: add credit to dev of original tomcat snap.

An snap package which installs tomact 8.5 along with an SSL certificate generated by Lets Encrypt.

Once installed the package will automatically renew the SSL certificate as required.

Note: current if a renewal occurs tomcat will be restarted without warning.

You would normally use this snap from within your own snap 

    name: orion-monitor # you probably want to 'snapcraft register <name>'
    version: '0.1' 
    summary: monitoring of orion vms.
    description: |
      My web app does good things.
      
    grade: devel # must be 'stable' to release into candidate/stable channels
    confinement: devmode # use 'strict' once you have the right plugs and slots
  
    apps:
      tomcat:
        command: tomcat-launch
        daemon: simple
        plugs: [network, network-bind]
  
    parts:
      my-webapp:
        plugin: maven
        source: https://github.com/bsutton/IrrigationForPi.git
        maven-options:
          [-DskipTests=true]
        organize:
          # rename the generated war so the servlet context name is short
          war/irrigation-1.0-SNAPSHOT.war : webapps/irrigation.war
        after: [tomcat-with-ssl]


# installing
To install your snap
    
    sudo snap install <your snap>
  
Tomcat will start on port 8080. 

# obtain a certificate

You now need to obtain a certificate:
Run:

    <yoursnap>.getcert <your email address> <fqdn> true
  
True is the default for the final parameter so can be left off.

# use a staging certificate during testing
Running getcert obtains a Lets Encrypt certificate.
By default it will get a live production certificate.

During testing of your app installation process you may want to run with a Lets Encrypt 'Staging' certificate
as Lets Encrypt has a daily request limit on live certificates (of around five).

To use a staging certificate add 'false' to the end of the line:

    <yoursnap>.getcert <your email address> <fqdn> false
  
# Certbot
getcert uses Lets Encrypts cert bot to obtain the certificates:

Certbot logs to: 

    /root/snap/<yoursnap>/current/letsencrypt/logs/letsencrypt.log
  
# certificate renewal
The snap installs its own 'cron' process which runs every fifteen minutes to check for an expired certificate.

If the renewal cron detects an expiry certificate it will automatically renew it.
When it renews the certificate it will restart tomcat so it picks up the new certificate.

Currently this process can trigger at ANY time during the day!

The cron process logs to:

    /root/snap/<yoursnap>/current/cron/renew.log
  
# Tomcat

You can start/stop/restart tomcat via:

    sudo snap start|stop|restart <yoursnap>.tomcat
  
## Tomcat Logs

Tomcat logs are contained within the snap and can be found at:

    /var/snap/<yoursnap>/current/logs


